Added Device Vitals page, added new "tree" in Navigation Panel (#1281)
saucelabs/sauce-docs: docs/mobile-apps/features/device-vitals.md

---

> id: device-vitals

Author: As per our slack conversation- resolving the comment :)

> title: Device Vitals

Reviewer: App Diagnostics

Author: As per our slack conversation- resolving the comment :)

> sidebar_label: Device Vitals

Reviewer: App Diagnostics

Author: As per our slack conversation- resolving the comment :)

---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> Device Vitals is a functionality that gives you the ability to debug and observe an app’s performance during test execution for both, [Live](/mobile-apps/live-testing/live-mobile-app-testing/) and [Automated](/mobile-apps/automated-testing/) testing. With this feature, the app's performance is recorded on our side during the test session and displayed for your test results.

Reviewer: > and observe an app’s performance

i would highlight:

_and observe a mobile app's performance_

Author: Done.

> Device Vitals is a functionality that gives you the ability to debug and observe an app’s performance during test execution for both, [Live](/mobile-apps/live-testing/live-mobile-app-testing/) and [Automated](/mobile-apps/automated-testing/) testing. With this feature, the app's performance is recorded on our side during the test session and displayed for your test results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Device Vitals is a functionality that allows you to debug and observe an app’s performance during test execution for both [Live](/mobile-apps/live-testing/live-mobile-app-testing/) and [Automated](/mobile-apps/automated-testing/) testing. With this feature, the app's performance is recorded on our side during the test session and displayed for your test results.
```

> Device Vitals is a functionality that gives you the ability to debug and observe an app’s performance during test execution for both, [Live](/mobile-apps/live-testing/live-mobile-app-testing/) and [Automated](/mobile-apps/automated-testing/) testing. With this feature, the app's performance is recorded on our side during the test session and displayed for your test results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Device Vitals is a functionality that allows you to debug and observe an app’s performance during test execution for both [Live](/mobile-apps/live-testing/live-mobile-app-testing/) and [Automated](/mobile-apps/automated-testing/) testing. With this feature, the app's performance is recorded during the test session and displayed for your test results.
```

Author: Done.

> Device Vitals is a functionality that gives you the ability to debug and observe an app’s performance during test execution for both, [Live](/mobile-apps/live-testing/live-mobile-app-testing/) and [Automated](/mobile-apps/automated-testing/) testing. With this feature, the app's performance is recorded on our side during the test session and displayed for your test results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Device Vitals is a functionality that allows you to debug and observe an app’s performance during test execution for both [Live](/mobile-apps/live-testing/live-mobile-app-testing/) and [Automated](/mobile-apps/automated-testing/) testing. With this feature, the app's performance is recorded during the test session and displayed for your test results.
```

## What You'll Need

* A Sauce Labs account ([Log in](https://accounts.saucelabs.com/am/XUI/#login/) or sign up for a [free trial license](https://saucelabs.com/sign-up))
* A native Android, iOS, or iPadOS mobile app
  

> ## Using Device Vitals on Real Devices

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Enabling Device Vitals for Real Devices
```

> Device Vitals is enabled by default if you have the instrumentation feature enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, Device Vitals is enabled if the instrumentation feature is enabled.
```

> If Instrumentation is disabled, follow the steps below to enable it: 

Reviewer 2: To enable device instrumentation:

> If Instrumentation is disabled, follow the steps below to enable it: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable device instrumentation:
```

1. On Sauce Labs, click **Live** > **Mobile App**.
2. [Upload your mobile app to Sauce Labs](/mobile-apps/app-storage/) through the UI or CLI.
3. After you’ve uploaded your app, return to the **Live** > **Mobile App** page, hover your mouse over your app, then select **Settings**. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/networkcapturescr.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="600"/>
4. Under **Default Settings**, toggle **Instrumentation** on. 
   <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/Device-Vitals-screenshot-1.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="600"/>

> Now you can start your live or automated testing session. Your device vitals will be captured and be part of your test results page. 

Reviewer: We should add here information about:
CPU performance, what do we capture. 
Memory performance. 

Differentiation between iOS/Android UI responsiveness

Author: Done.

> Now you can start your live or automated testing session. Your Device Vitals will be captured and be part of your test results page. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you can start your live or automated testing session. Your Device Vitals will be captured and be part of your test results. 
```

> ## Accessing the App Performance metrics 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion for consistency
## Accessing Device Vitals Metrics
```

> The device vitals recording will be included in the test results page. You will be able to compare your results and analyze the app performance.

Reviewer: @aoleszyn can we add a screenshot please for the feature?

Reviewer: i can pair with you on this one. We should run a test with our demo app, and add screenshot how it looks like

---
id: device-vitals
title: Device Vitals

> ---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: Device Vitals
---
```

Reviewer 2: As per our style guide, we should also include a 'sidebar_label' at the top of the docs page: https://docs.saucelabs.com/contributing/style-guide/#frontmatter

## What You'll Need

* A Sauce Labs account ([Log in](https://accounts.saucelabs.com/am/XUI/#login/) or sign up for a [free trial license](https://saucelabs.com/sign-up))
* A native Android, iOS, or iPadOS mobile app
  
## Using Device Vitals for Real Devices

By default, Device Vitals is enabled if the instrumentation feature is enabled.
To enable device instrumentation:

1. On Sauce Labs, click **Live** > **Mobile App**.
2. [Upload your mobile app to Sauce Labs](/mobile-apps/app-storage/) through the UI or CLI.
3. After you’ve uploaded your app, return to the **Live** > **Mobile App** page, hover your mouse over your app, then select **Settings**. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/networkcapturescr.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="600"/>
4. Under **Default Settings**, toggle **Instrumentation** on. 
   <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/Device-Vitals-screenshot-1.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="600"/>

Now you can start your live or automated testing session. Your Device Vitals will be captured and be part of your test results. 

## Accessing Device Vitals Metrics

> 

Reviewer 2: As per Kris's comment, we should describe the metrics that are captured.

Reviewer 3: yes, that would be important to describe the data points we show and give an example of their value.
This is from the sales enablement slides perhaps you want to use them:

CPU Performance: 
Detect CPU leaks and over-usage which leads to performance problems, overheating, battery drains, and crashes.

Memory Performance: 
Understand how much memory is actually used by your app. 
Track where you need to reduce your memory footprint to reduce memory leaks. 
Utilize charts to identify where outliers are happening.

UI Responsiveness: 
Measure the delay in UI-responsiveness of apps under test.
Eg: When clicking a CTA button it takes a few seconds to trigger an action and load a new page.

Author: The metrics section has been added.

> The Device Vitals recording will be included in the test results page:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can access Device Vitals metrics from the Test Results page:
```

<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/Device-Vitals-screenshot-4.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="600"/>

### Memory Performance
This metric determines the amount of physical memory allocated to the app’s process. It allows you to track and analyze your memory footprint so you can reduce the memory leaks efficiently. You can also utilize the charts to identify the location of outliers. 

<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/Device-Vitals-screenshot-5.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="600"/>

### Responsiveness
<span className="sauceDBlue">Android Only</span>

The Responsiveness metric allows you to quickly assess the app’s health by tracking how long it takes for an app to respond to action and monitoring the delay of the app’s UI responsiveness. Currently, this metric is only available for Android devices.

<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/Device-Vitals-screenshot-6.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="600"/>

## Accessing Device Vitals Metrics

You can access Device Vitals metrics from the Test Results page:

> <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/DEvice-Vitals-screenshot-2.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="200"/>

Reviewer: Can we add a highlight for Automated tests too, currently this is just Livetesting highlighted, but most of the value will be for Automated

Reviewer: and call it out Automated and Live Test results page

Author: Automated testing highlighted.

### Responsiveness
<span className="sauceDBlue">Android Only</span>

The Responsiveness metric allows you to quickly assess the app’s health by tracking how long it takes for an app to respond to action and monitoring the delay of the app’s UI responsiveness. Currently, this metric is only available for Android devices.

<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/Device-Vitals-screenshot-6.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="600"/>

## Accessing Device Vitals Metrics

You can access Device Vitals metrics from the [Live Test Results](/mobile-apps/live-testing/live-mobile-app-testing/) or [Automated Test Results](/mobile-apps/automated-testing/) page:
<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/DEvice-Vitals-screenshot-2.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="200"/>
<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/DEvice-Vitals-screenshot-7.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="200"/>

You will be able to compare your results and analyze the app performance:
<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/Device-Vitals-Screenshot-3.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="800"/>

## Limitations

:::note 

> * Emulators and Simulators are not yet supported. 

Reviewer: lets add not support. the yet part is questionable :D i dont think we will do it in the next 1 year.

Author: Corrected :)

> * Cross-browser testing is not yet available. 

Reviewer: same as the above comment

Author: Corrected.
